# ComputationalSocialScienceFS22
R project on webscraping NYT and Guardian articles.


Today, there is no doubt that we, as users of the internet, are highly mediatised and online socialized. The traditional newspaper has moved from its original material “paper” for the most part to the online world, appearing as online news to meet the needs of potential new readers, coming from a more juvenile clientele. 
Furthermore, the world has simply changed. While printing was at its time the probably most groundbreaking invention, it is now the internet which rules the flow of information. Additionally, partisanship has declined drastically over the last decades, thus, getting politically informed is not necessarily a duty of the parties anymore but more of the individual. However, as social beings, we can only spend a limited time on such information seeking, therefore preferring sources, which can deliver the necessary facts in a short amount of time. 
Today, the internet is the place for information gathering, be it in online news, online pages such as Wikipedia or Google, or personal blogs in the form of - for instance - Social Media. With the current developments in Data Science, Big Data, AI and Machine Learning, not only information we share - more or less - openly with the internet but also user behavior is stored in large piles of data. This stock has probably become a company’s most valuable asset. 
It is therefore no wonder that a tech giant such as Google gathers all the intelligence it can get. While offering the probably most requested service on the internet, it has the power to discover trends in their uprising, simply by looking at the statistics of how many times a certain group of people have googled a specific term. The power of knowing what people want to eat tonight, what kind of political trends are expectable in a specific region in the world, or what people fear the most - and, of course becoming synonymous with the word “searching”, again demonstrates Google’s nearly unlimited influence. However, behind this market cap, Google also provides a limited view of what has trended on the internet through its tool “Google Trends”, where anyone can look behind the curtain of its search power. 
However, discovering trends certainly has not only started with the internet or Google. As it has always been the job of newspapers to uncover the newest developments, the medium needed to undergo a dramatic change in light of the world wide web. While people read fewer and fewer newspapers in the print version, newspapers had to adapt to the new “style” of information distribution. As a consequence, they have developed online news pages, as well as being present on Social Media. Due to economic reasons, they have to think about how to get more readers, and, thus, gather more income. This implies that they have to be up-to-date when it comes to trends, arising inside and outside of the internet. However, are they as fast and precise as Google Trends? Have they the possibility to uncover trends as they are about to rise in Google Trends?
In our paper, we take a deeper look at whether Google Trends are comparable with online news concerning COVID-19 in a period of five months in 2020. Comparing issues in Google Trends with their salience in online news, we hope to find reliable sources for future studies on public agenda setting and further research into mechanisms dominating the internet.
